# Toronto JS blog

## Pre-requisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) - The JavaScript runtime that runs the project
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm) - To run the commands and install the dependencies
- [`volta`](https://volta.sh/) - (**OPTIONAL**) to manage Node.js versions
- [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert) - To generate SSL certificates for local development

## Getting Started

### (**OPTIONAL**) Install `volta`

`volta` is a tool to manage Node.js versions. It's optional, but it's a good tool to have if you work with multiple Node.js projects. You can skip this step if you want to use your system's Node.js version and don't mind about node versions. With `volta`, you don't need to install node.js separately as it will keep track of the versions for you.

To install `volta` on Linux or Mac, run the following command:

```shell
curl https://get.volta.sh | bash
```

On Windows, you can run the following command:

```shell
winget install --id Volta.Volta
```

After installing, you will need to restart your terminal or open a new terminal window to use `volta`.

Now, when you run the project, `volta` will automatically install the correct version of Node.js for the project.

### Install mkcert

You will need to generate a certificate to run the local server. To do so, you can use [mkcert](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert).

First, install `mkcert` for your operating system, following the instructions on the [mkcert GitHub page](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert?tab=readme-ov-file#installation). On Windows 10+ you can use [`winget`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/) instead with the command below:

```shell
winget install --id FiloSottile.mkcert
```

After installing `mkcert`, you will need to restart your terminal or open a new terminal window to use `mkcert`.

### Install root certificate

Run the following command to install the root certificate:

```shell
mkcert -install
```

This will add a new root certificate to your system's trust store. That will make your system trust any certificate generated by `mkcert` and allow you to run a local server with HTTPS.

### Generate a certificate for localhost

To generate a certificate for `localhost`, inside the root project folder, create the `certs` folder and run the following command:

```shell
mkdir certs
```

Then run the following command to generate the certificate for `localhost`:

```shell
mkcert -key-file certs/server.key -cert-file certs/server.crt localhost
```

This will generate a `server.key` and `server.crt` file in a `certs` directory at the root of the project.

### Start the local server

Once you have the certificate, you can start the local server by running the following command:

```shell
npm start
```

This will start the local server at [`https://localhost:3000/`](https://localhost:3000/). You can then access the site from your browser.

## Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command | Action |
| :--- | :--- |
| `npm install` | Installs all dependencies |
| `npm start` | Starts local dev server at [`https://localhost:3000/`](https://localhost:3000/) |
| `npm run build` | Build your production site to `./dist/` |
| `npm run preview` | Preview your build locally, before deploying |
| `npm run astro ...` | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run lint` | Checks the project for errors and fix most of them |


## Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```text
/
├── .astro/
|-- .github/
|-- .husky/
|-- .vscode/
|-- certs/
├── dist/
├── node_modules/
├── public/
├── src/
│   └── components/
|   └── js/
│   └── layouts/
│   └── pages/
│   └── styles/
|   └── env.d.ts
|   └── manifest.json
|   └── sw-caching.ts
├── .eslintrc
├── .stylelintrc
├── .markuplintrc
├── .gitignore
├── astro.config.ts
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── README.md
```

- `.astro/`: Astro's internal files, this is auto generated and should not be modified.
- `.github/`: GitHub configuration files, including the actions to run when code is pushed and alerts about dependencies.
- `.husky/`: Husky is a tool that hooks into git and run commands before actions are made, such as commits and pushes.
- `.vscode/`: Visual Studio Code configuration files, including settings, extensions, and tasks.
- `certs/`: SSL certificates for local development.
- `dist/`: The output of `npm run build`, this is the production site.
- `node_modules/`: The dependencies of the project. This is generated by `npm install`.
- `public/`: Static files for the project, those are copied without any processing to the `dist/` folder and are available at the root of the site.
- `src/`: The source code of the project.
  - `components/`: Reusable components that are used across multiple pages.
  - `js/`: JavaScript files that are not components, like scripts that run on the client side.
  - `layouts/`: Resuable layouts that are used across multiple pages.
  - `pages/`: Pages are the main content of the site, they are the entry points of the site.
  - `styles/`: Styles are the CSS files of the project.
  - `env.d.ts`: Global typescript type file, used to declare global variables and other things that should be made available throughout the project.
  - `manifest.json`: Web App Manifest file, used to configure the PWA part of the project.
  - `sw-caching.ts`: Service Worker caching strategies to be used. This is what instructs the service worker on how to cache the site.
- `.eslintrc`: ESLint configuration file, used to configure the linter for JavaScript and TypeScript files.
- `.stylelintrc`: Stylelint configuration file, used to configure the linter for CSS files.
- `.markuplintrc`: Markuplint configuration file, used to configure the linter for HTML and Astro files.
- `.gitignore`: Git configuration file, used to tell git which files to ignore.
- `astro.config.ts`: Astro configuration file, used to configure Astro's behavior.
- `package.json`: NPM configuration file, lists out the project's dependencies and some configuration.
- `package-lock.json`: NPM lock file, used to lock the versions of the dependencies.
- `tsconfig.json`: TypeScript configuration file, used to configure the TypeScript compiler.
- `README.md`: This file.

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to the project, please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
